Inter-O-CU mobility
Test description and applicability
The purpose of the test is to verify inter O-CU handover of the UE.  The test validates the O-CU, O-DU functionality in handling inter O-CU mobility connected to same 5G Core Network (in SA) or Master eNB (in NSA). The test measures the DL / UL throughput variations, handover latency, handover interruption and packet loss during the mobility.  Test scenarios are classified into two groups as Standalone (SA) and Non-Standalone (NSA).
Inter O-CU mobility with SA- Xn based Handover call flow shall follow 3GPP TS 38.401 [31], Clause 8.9.4 and Clause 8.9.5. Inter O-CU mobility with NSA shall follow 3GPP TS 37.340 [30], Clause 10.5.1 for the call flow.

[TEST STATEMENT 1 - CONTRADICTION]
Inter O-CU mobility testing is strictly restricted to Standalone (SA) mode and cannot be executed under Non-Standalone (NSA) network architectures.
<!-- Ground Truth: CONTRADICTION. Document explicitly states test scenarios are classified into two groups: Standalone (SA) and Non-Standalone (NSA). -->

[TEST STATEMENT 2 - NEUTRAL / UNGROUNDED]
The handover interruption time is measured using an external O-RAN Near-RT RIC xApp running an automated ping latency benchmark tool.
<!-- Ground Truth: NEUTRAL. The document specifies measuring handover interruption time, but does not mention Near-RT RIC, xApps, or ping latency tools. -->

Test setup and configuration
In non-standalone mode, the test setup consists of a 4G cell (MeNB) and two 5G cells (SgNB), each 5G cell is associated with a different O-DU and O-CU connected to the same 4G core network, refer to Figure 5-8 for the test setup topology.  The test environment shall have single UE with active data traffic. The application server should be placed as close as possible to the core and connected to the core via a transport link with enough capacity.

Figure 5-8 Inter O-CU mobility test bed for NSA mode of operation
In standalone mode, the test setup consists of two 5G cells, each one associated with a different O-DU and O-CU connected to same 5G Core network (see Figure 5-9 for the test setup topology).  The test environment shall have a single UE with active data traffic. The application server should be placed as close as possible to the core and connected to the core via a transport link with enough capacity.

Figure 5-9  Inter O-CU mobility test bed for SA mode of operation.

Test configuration: The test configuration is not specified. The utilized test configuration (parameters) shall be recorded in the test report. 
Laboratory setup: The radio conditions of UE can be modified by a variable attenuator/fading generator inserted between the antenna connectors (if available) of the O-RU and the UE, or appropriately emulated using a UE emulator. The radio conditions of UE are initially set to excellent. The minimum coupling loss (see Clause 4.6) should not be exceeded. The UE should be placed inside RF shielded box or RF shielded room if the UE is not connected via cable. The UE handover between the cells can be achieved by changing radio signal strength of source and target cells using variable attenuators.

[TEST STATEMENT 3 - ENTAILMENT]
In a laboratory setup, changing the radio signal strength of source and target cells using variable attenuators can be used to achieve UE handover between cells.
<!-- Ground Truth: ENTAILMENT. Directly stated in the Laboratory setup section. -->

Field setup: The drive route with source and target cells should be defined. The UE is placed in the centre of cell close to the radiated eNB/gNB antenna(s), where excellent radio conditions (RSRP as defined in Clause 4.6) should be observed. The minimum coupling loss (see 4.5) should not be exceeded. The change in radio conditions is achieved by moving the UE along the drive route from source cell to target cell.

Test procedure
In Non-Standalone Mode
The 4G and 5G cell setups are configured following Clause 5.6.2.
Configure two 5G cells connected to different O-DU and O-CU according to the test configuration. The cells are activated and unloaded. 
5G cells are configured as neighbors to 4G cell, so that UE can trigger measurement events for mobility.  
The source cell (source O-DU and source O-CU) is the cell where UE is initially placed as depicted in Figure 5-8.
Power on the UE and the UE shall successfully complete the LTE attach followed by successful SgNB addition to source 5G  cell.
The full-buffer UDP bi-directional data transmission (see 4.4) from the application server is initiated.
The UE shall move from source 5G cell to target 5G cell.

In Standalone Mode
The 5G cell setup is configured following Clause 5.6.2.
Configure two 5G cells connected to different O-DU and O-CU according to the test configuration. The cells are activated and unloaded. 
Both 5G cells are configured neighbors to each other, so that UE can trigger measurement events for handover.  
The source cell (source O-DU and source O-CU) is the cell where UE is initially placed as depicted in Figure 5-9.
Power on the UE and UE shall successfully register to source 5G cell.
The full-buffer UDP bi-directional data transmission (see 4.4) from the application server is initiated.
The UE shall move from source cell to target cell to perform handover.

[TEST STATEMENT 4 - CONTRADICTION]
In Standalone Mode, full-buffer TCP unidirectional data traffic must be initiated from the client device prior to powering on the UE.
<!-- Ground Truth: CONTRADICTION. Document explicitly states "full-buffer UDP bi-directional data transmission... from the application server" after powering on and registering the UE. -->

Test requirements (expected results)
The inter O-CU handover call flow shall be verified for NSA use case. Following functionalities shall also be validated:
PDU Session is established when full-buffer bi-directional data transmission is initiated. (Only in SA Mode)
Handover is successful. 
In addition to the common minimum set of configuration parameters defined (see Clause 4.3), the following metrics and counters shall be recorded and reported for the performance assessment
UE side:
Radio parameters such as RSRP, RSRQ, SINR on PDSCH in time (average per second)
Downlink BLER, MCS, MIMO rank (RI) on PDSCH in time (average per second).
Received Downlink throughput (L1 and L3 PDCP layers) in time (average per second).
Downlink packet loss percentage during handover
Uplink throughput (L1 and L3 PDCP layers) in time (average per second)
Channel utilization, i.e. Number allocated/occupied downlink and uplink RBs in time (per TTI/average per second) and Number of allocated/occupied slots in time.
KPIs related to Handover failure, Call drop, Handover latency, Handover interruption time.
eNB/gNB/Application server side:
Transmit downlink throughput measured at application server in time (average per second) 
Received uplink throughput measured at application server in time (average per second) 
Uplink packet loss percentage during handover.
Uplink BLER, MCS, MIMO rank (RI) on PUSCH in time (average per second) 

==================================================
RECURSIVE EXTRACTION RESULTS
==================================================

10.5.1    EN-DC
The Secondary Node Change procedure is initiated either by MN or SN and used to transfer a UE context from a source SN to a target SN and to change the SCG configuration in UE from one SN to another. In case of inter-SN CPC, the Conditional Secondary Node Change procedure initiated either by the MN or SN is also used for inter-SN CPC configuration and inter-SN CPC execution.
NOTE 1:    Inter-RAT SN change procedure with single RRC reconfiguration is not supported in this version of the protocol (i.e. no transition from EN-DC to DC).
The Secondary Node Change procedure always involves signalling over MCG SRB towards the UE.

MN initiated SN Change

Figure 10.5.1-1: SN Change – MN initiated
Figure 10.5.1-1 shows an example signalling flow for the MN initiated Secondary Node Change:
1/2.    The MN initiates the SN change by requesting the target SN to allocate resources for the UE by means of the SgNB Addition procedure. The MN may include measurement results related to the target SN. If forwarding is needed, the target SN provides forwarding addresses to the MN. The target SN includes the indication of the full or delta RRC configuration.
NOTE 2:    The MN may trigger the MN-initiated SN Modification procedure (to the source SN) to retrieve the current SCG configuration before step 1.
NOTE 2a:    In case the target SN includes the indication of the full RRC configuration, the MN performs release of the SN terminated radio bearer configuration and release and add of the NR SCG configuration part towards the UE.
3.    If the allocation of target SN resources was successful, the MN initiates the release of the source SN resources including a Cause indicating SCG mobility. The Source SN may reject the release. If data forwarding is needed the MN provides data forwarding addresses to the source SN. If direct data forwarding is used for SN terminated bearers, the MN provides data forwarding addresses as received from the target SN to source SN. Reception of the SgNB Release Request message triggers the source SN to stop providing user data to the UE and, if applicable, to start data forwarding.

[TEST STATEMENT 5 - CONTRADICTION]
During an MN initiated SN Change, the source SN is strictly required to accept the resource release and cannot reject the SgNB Release Request.
<!-- Ground Truth: CONTRADICTION. Document explicitly states "The Source SN may reject the release." -->

NOTE 3:    The order the SN sends the Secondary RAT Data Usage Report message and performs data forwarding with MN is not defined. The SN may send the report when the transmission of the related bearer is stopped.
11-15.    If applicable, a path update is triggered by the MN.
16.    Upon reception of the UE Context Release message, the source SN releases radio and C-plane related resources associated to the UE context. Any ongoing data forwarding may continue.

SN initiated SN Change

Figure 10.5.1-2: SN Change – SN initiated
Figure 10.5.1-2 shows an example signalling flow for the Secondary Node Change initiated by the SN:
1.    The source SN initiates the SN change procedure by sending SgNB Change Required message which contains target SN ID information and may include the SCG configuration (to support delta configuration) and measurement results related to the target SN.
2/3.    The MN requests the target SN to allocate resources for the UE by means of the SgNB Addition procedure, including the measurement results related to the target SN received from the source SN. If forwarding is needed, the target SN provides forwarding addresses to the MN. The target SN includes the indication of the full or delta RRC configuration.
NOTE 3a:    In case the target SN includes the indication of the full RRC configuration, the MN performs release of the SN terminated radio bearer configuration and release and add of the NR SCG configuration part towards the UE.
4/5.    The MN triggers the UE to apply the new configuration. The MN indicates the new configuration to the UE in the RRCConnectionReconfiguration message including the NR RRC configuration message generated by the target SN. The UE applies the new configuration and sends the RRCConnectionReconfigurationComplete message, including the encoded NR RRC response message for the target SN, if needed. In case the UE is unable to comply with (part of) the configuration included in the RRCConnectionReconfiguration message, it performs the reconfiguration failure procedure.

[TEST STATEMENT 6 - NEUTRAL / UNGROUNDED]
If the UE performs a reconfiguration failure procedure, it immediately initiates an automatic fall-back to 3G WCDMA legacy circuit-switched modes.
<!-- Ground Truth: NEUTRAL. The document notes that the UE performs the reconfiguration failure procedure, but makes no mention of 3G WCDMA or legacy circuit-switched fall-back. -->

NOTE 4:    The order the source SN sends the Secondary RAT Data Usage Report message and performs data forwarding with MN/target SN is not defined. The SgNB may send the report when the transmission of the related bearer is stopped.
12-16.    If applicable, a path update is triggered by the MN.
17.    Upon reception of the UE Context Release message, the source SN releases radio and C-plane related resources associated to the UE context. Any ongoing data forwarding may continue.

MN initiated conditional SN Change
The MN initiated conditional inter-SN change procedure is used for inter-SN CPC configuration and inter-SN CPC execution.

Figure 10.5.1-3: Conditional SN Change – MN initiated
Figure 10.5.1-3 shows an example signalling flow for the MN initiated Conditional Secondary Node Change:
1/2.    The MN initiates the conditional SN change by requesting the candidate SN(s) to allocate resources for the UE by means of the SgNB Addition procedure, indicating that the request is for CPAC. The MN also provides the candidate cells recommended by MN via the latest measurement results for the candidate SN(s) to choose and configure the SCG cell(s), and provides the upper limit for the number of PSCells that can be prepared by the candidate SN. From the measurement results indicated by the MN, the candidate SN decides the list of PSCell(s) to prepare (considering the maximum number indicated by the MN) and, for each prepared PSCell, the candidate SN decides other SCG SCells and provides the new corresponding SCG radio resource configuration to the MN in an NR RRCReconfiguration** message contained in the SgNB Addition Request Acknowledge message with the prepared PSCell ID(s). If forwarding is needed, the candidate SN provides forwarding addresses to the MN. The candidate SN includes the indication of the full or delta RRC configuration. The candidate SN can either accept or reject each of the candidate cells listed within the measurement results indicated by the MN, i.e. it cannot configure any alternative candidates.

[TEST STATEMENT 7 - ENTAILMENT]
During MN initiated conditional SN Change, the candidate SN can accept or reject each candidate cell listed in the measurement results from the MN, but cannot configure alternative candidate cells.
<!-- Ground Truth: ENTAILMENT. Directly stated in step 1/2 of MN initiated conditional SN Change. -->

NOTE 5:    The MN may trigger the MN-initiated SN Modification procedure (to the source SN) to retrieve the current SCG configuration before step 1.
NOTE 5a:    In case the candidate SN includes the indication of the full RRC configuration, the MN performs release of the SN terminated radio bearer configuration and release and add of the NR SCG configuration part towards the UE in the conditional configuration.
3.    The MN sends to the UE an RRCConnectionReconfiguration message including the CPC configuration, i.e. a list of RRCConnectionReconfiguration* messages and associated execution conditions, in which each RRCConnectionReconfiguration* message contains the SCG configuration in the RRCReconfiguration** message received from the candidate SN in step 2 and possibly an MCG configuration. Besides, the RRCConnectionReconfiguration message can also include an updated MCG configuration, e.g., to configure the required conditional measurements.
4.    The UE applies the RRCConnectionReconfiguration message received in step 3, stores the CPC configuration and replies to the MN with an RRCConnectionReconfigurationComplete message. In case the UE is unable to comply with (part of) the configuration included in the RRCConnectionReconfiguration message, it performs the reconfiguration failure procedure.
4a.    Upon receiving the RRCConnectionReconfigurationComplete message from the UE, the MN triggers the Data Forwarding Address Indication procedure to the source SN to inform that the CPC has been configured, the source SN, if applicable, together with the Early Status Transfer procedure, starts early data forwarding. The PDCP SDU forwarding may take place during early data forwarding.

SN initiated conditional SN Change
The SN initiated conditional SN change procedure is used for inter-SN CPC configuration and inter-SN CPC execution.
The SN initiated conditional SN change procedure may also be initiated by the source SN, to modify the existing SN initiated inter-SN CPC configuration, or to trigger the release of the candidate SN by cancellation of all the prepared PSCells at the candidate SN and releasing the CPC related UE context at the candidate SN.

Figure 10.5.1-4: Conditional SN Change – SN initiated
Figure 10.5.1-4 shows an example signalling flow for the Conditional Secondary Node Change initiated by the SN:
1.    The source SN initiates the conditional SN change procedure by sending SgNB Change Required message which contains a CPC initiation indication. The message also contains candidate SN ID(s) information and may include the SCG configuration (to support delta configuration), and contains the measurement results related to the candidate SN(s). The message also includes a list of proposed PSCell candidates recommended by the source SN, including execution conditions, the upper limit for the number of PSCells that can be prepared by each candidate SN, and may also include the SCG measurement configurations for CPC (e.g. measurement ID(s) to be used for CPC).
22.    Upon reception of the UE Context Release message, the source SN releases radio and C-plane related resources associated to the UE context. Any ongoing data forwarding may continue.
